JOBS, AND AN ECONOMIC RECOVERY
THAT FINALLY MIGHT BE FELT BY
MOST AMERICANS.
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING, I'M
JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, CHANGE OF COMMAND AT
THE PENTAGON, PRESIDENT OBAMA
TAPS ASH CARTER TO BE THE NEXT
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
>> Woodruff: IT'S FRIDAY, MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ANALYZE
THE WEEK'S NEWS.
PLUS, "ROLLING STONE" MAGAZINE
APOLOGIZES FOR ERRORS IN ITS
REPORTING ON SEXUAL ASSAULT AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: IT'S THE BIGGEST
BURST OF HIRING IN THE U.S. IN
NEARLY THREE YEARS.
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT REPORTED
NUMBERS TODAY THAT HAD
ECONOMISTS SITTING UP AND TAKING
NOTICE.
A MONTHLY SURVEY FOUND U.S.
EMPLOYERS ADDED A NET OF 321,000
NEW POSITIONS IN NOVEMBER.
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, WHICH
COMES FROM A SEPARATE SURVEY,
STAYED AT 5.8%, THAT IS A SIX-
YEAR LOW.
AND, IN ANOTHER HOPEFUL SIGN,
THAVERE AGE HOURLY WAGE ROSE
NINE CENTS, THE MOST IN 17
MONTHS.
WE'LL EXAMINE WHAT'S BEHIND THE
NUMBERS, LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
PROTESTS OVER THE KILLINGS OF
BLACK MEN BY WHITE POLICE KEPT
GOING TODAY WITH NO SIGN OF A
LET-UP.
THEY WERE FUELED AGAIN BY FURY
OVER A GRAND JURY'S DECISION IN
NEW YORK CITY.
THE PANEL DECIDED TUESDAY NOT TO
ISSUE AN INDICTMENT IN THE DEATH
OF ERIC GARNER.
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS ON THE
DAY'S DEVELOPMENTS.
>> Brown: ONE OF THE LATEST
DEMONSTRATIONS CAME THIS MORNING
IN AURORA, COLORADO, WHERE
HUNDREDS OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
STAGED A WALK-OUT.
A POLICE OFFICER EVEN GAVE OUT
HIGH-FIVES AS THEY MARCHED PAST.
IN CHICAGO AND OTHER CITIES,
MORE PROTESTS GEARED UP AS THE
AFTERNOON WORE ON.
THAT FOLLOWED A NIGHT OF
DEMONSTRATIONS NATIONWIDE, WITH
THOUSANDS GIVING VOICE TO ANGER
AND FRUSTRATION.
>> WE'RE FIRED UP!
>> CAN'T TAKE IT NO MORE!
>> Brown: IN NEW YORK,
ESPECIALLY, EMOTIONS WERE STILL
RUNNING HIGH OVER THE ERIC
GARNER CASE.
MOST OF THE PROTESTS WERE
PEACEFUL, BUT MINOR SCUFFLES DID
BREAK OUT.
THIS MORNING NEW YORK POLICE
COMMISSIONER WILLIAM BRATTON
SAID TODAY THERE WERE MORE THAN
220 ARRESTS.
>> SOME OF THEM WERE MUCH MORE
ASSERTIVE SO THOSE ARRESTS
INCLUDE DISORDERLY CONDUCT, SOME
ASSAULTS ON POLICE OFFICERS.
I BELIEVE MY OFFICERS SHOWED
REMARKABLE RESTRAINT IN THE FACE
OF IN MANY INSTANCES A LOT OF
PROVOCATION.
>> Brown: MEANWHILE, THE
DISTRICT ATTORNEY IN BROOKLYN
ANNOUNCED A GRAND JURY WILL
PROBE THE KILLING OF AN UNARMED
BLACK SUSPECT IN A DIMLY LIT
STAIRWELL TWO WEEKS AGO.
A ROOKIE POLICEMAN HAS SAID HIS
GUN WENT OFF ACCIDENTALLY.
ALSO TODAY, THE N.Y.P.D.
LAUNCHED A PILOT PROGRAM TO
START OUTFITTING OFFICERS WITH
BODY CAMERAS.
BUT MANY PROTESTERS DISMISSED
THE GESTURE.
>> ERIC GARNER'S MURDER WAS
CAUGHT ENTIRELY ON FILM AND THE
POLICE OFFICER WHO KILLED HIM
HAS STILL NOT BEEN INDICTED.
SO, IT KIND OF MAKES YOU WONDER
WHETHER OR NOT BODY CAMERAS
WOULD ACTUALLY DO ANYTHING.
>> Brown: ELSEWHERE, SOME 150
PEOPLE MARCHED IN PHOENIX
OVERNIGHT, AFTER A BLACK MAN WAS
KILLED TUESDAY BY A WHITE
OFFICER WHO SAID HE MISTOOK A
PILL BOTTLE FOR A GUN.
>> WE'RE NOT GOING TO STAND FOR
THEM AND THEIR BRUTALITY AGAINST
BLACK PEOPLE.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO JUST SIT BACK
AND WATCH WHILE OUR PEOPLE GET
KILLED.
>> Brown: AN INTERNAL
INVESTIGATION IS UNDERWAY IN THE
PHOENIX SHOOTING.
>> Woodruff: IN ANOTHER
DEVELOPMENT, MORE THAN 100
ACTIVISTS ARRIVED IN JEFFERSON
CITY, MISSOURI THE STATE CAPITAL
AFTER MARCHING 120 MILES FROM
FERGUSON.
THEY PROTESTED POLICE TREATMENT
OF BLACKS, AND THE KILLING OF
MICHAEL BROWN IN FERGUSON LAST
AUGUST.
NEW JERSEY LAWMAKERS HAVE FOUND
NO EVIDENCE THAT GOVERNOR CHRIS
CHRISTIE HELPED CREATE TRAFFIC
JAMS AT A MAJOR BRIDGE FOR
POLITICAL GAIN.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE JOINT
LEGISLATIVE PANEL DOES NOT RULE
OUT THE POSSIBILITY THAT HE
MIGHT HAVE BEEN INVOLVED.
CHRISTIE IS A POTENTIAL
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE IN 2016.
HE HAS DENIED ANY ROLE IN THE
BRIDGE SCANDAL.
THE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT
DROPPED CHARGES OF CRIMESAGSTANE
PRESIDENT OF KENYA TODAY FOR
WANT OF EVIDENCE.
UHURU KENYATTA HAD BEEN ACCUSED
OF FOMENTING ETHNIC VIOLENCE
AFTER A 2007 ELECTION, KILLING
MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE.
PROSECUTORS ACCUSED KENYATTA AND
HIS SUPPORTERS OF OBSTRUCTING
THE INVESTIGATION AND
INTIMIDATING WITNESSES.
>> THIS IS A PAINFUL MOMENT FOR
THE MEN, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN WHO
HAVE SUFFERED TREMENDOUSLY FROM
THE HORRORS OF THE POST-ELECTION
VIOLENCE, AND WHO HAVE WAITED,
PATIENTLY, FOR ALMOST SEVEN
YEARS TO SEE JUSTICE DONE.
I HAVE DECIDED TO WITHDRAW THE
CHARGES AGAINST MR. KENYATTA
AFTER CAREFULLY CONSIDERING ALL
THE EVIDENCE.
>> Woodruff: IN NAIROBI,
KENYATTA WAS CHEERED AND
CONGRATULATED AFTER GETTING THE
NEWS AT A MEETING OF BUSINESS
LEADERS.
SUPPORTERS ALSO CELEBRATED IN
THE STREETS, CHANTING "BYE-BYE,
I-C-C."
THE MAN WHO WAS ONCE HEAD OF
CHINA'S FEARED DOMESTIC SECURITY
AGENCIES WAS ARRESTED TODAY ON
CHARGES OF CORRUPTION, ADULTERY
AND LEAKING SECRETS.
ZHOU YONGKANG WAS ALSO EXPELLED
FROM THE RULING COMMUNIST PARTY.
THAT MADE HIM THE HIGHEST
RANKING FIGURE TO BE PROSECUTED
SO FAR IN PRESIDENT XI JINPING'S
CORRUPTION CRACKDOWN.
ZHOU HAD BEEN A KEY RIVAL TO XI.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, CONGRESS
HAS VOTED TO BLOCK SUSPECTED
NAZI WAR CRIMINALS FROM GETTING
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS.
THE SENATE APPROVED THE BILL
LAST NIGHT, AND SENT IT TO THE
PRESIDENT.
THAT FOLLOWED AN ASSOCIATED
PRESS INVESTIGATION THAT FOUND
DOZENS OF NAZI SUSPECTS
COLLECTED MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
BENEFITS SINCE 1979, UNDER A
LEGAL LOOPHOLE.
NASA TOOK A BIG FIRST STEP TODAY
TOWARD A POTENTIAL MISSION TO
MARS.
IT WAS THE FIRST, UNMANNED TEST
FLIGHT FOR THE ORION CAPSULE,
AND IT WENT OFF WITHOUT A HITCH.
THE SPACECRAFT BLASTED OFF ATOP
A DELTA-FOUR ROCKET JUST AFTER
DAWN, FROM CAPE CANAVERAL, AND
IT REACHED A PEAK ALTITU OFDE
3,600 MILES.
ABOUT FOUR-AND-A-HALF HOURS
LATER, ORION MADE A BULLS-EYE
SPLASHDOWN, 630 MILES SOUTHWEST
OF SAN DIEGO.
>> IT'S HARD TO HAVE A BETTER
DAY THAN TODAY, IT WAS A LOT OF
FUN, VERY EXCITING, EACH PART OF
THE MISSION.
OF COURSE, PART OF THE REASONS
IT'S EXCITING IS IT'S A
DIFFICULT MISSION, IT'S A TOUGH
ENVIRONMENT TO FLY THROUGH,
TOUGH OBJECTIVES THAT WE SET FOR
THIS FLIGHT.
BUT IT APPEARS THAT ORION AND
THE DELTA 4-HEAVY WERE NEARLY
FLAWLESS.
GREAT JOB BY THE TEAM.
>> Woodruff: ORION'S FLIGHT PATH
TOOK IT DEEPER INTO SPACE THAN
ANY CRAFT BUILT FOR HUMANS HAS
GONE, SINCE 1972.
THAT WAS WHEN APOLLO 17 MADE THE
LASMANNT ED FLIGHT TO THE MOON.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
58 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 17,958;
THE NASDAQ ROSE 11 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,780; AND THE S&P
ADDED THREE, TO FINISH AT 2,075.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED
SEN TEVENTHS OF A PERCENT; AND
THE S&P WAS UP FOUR TENTHS; THE
NASDAQ FELL A FRACTION.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
HOW WILL THE NEW DEFENSE
SECRETARY RELATE TO THE WHITE
HOUSE?
WHAT TO MAKE OF THE MUCH BETTER
THAN EXPECTED JOBS NUMBERS.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS.
A ONE OF A KIND SURVIVOR OF
PEARL HARBOR.
AND, NEW QUESTIONS ON "ROLLING
STONE'S" REPORT OF A SEXUAL
ASSAULT AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
VIRGINIA.
>> Woodruff: NOW, PRESIDENT
OBAMA ANNOUNCES A CHANGE OF
COMMAND AT THE DEFENSE
DEPARTMENT AS THE MILITARY FACES
MULTIPLE CHALLENGES ABROAD.
>> TODAY, I'M PLEASED TO
ANNOUNCE MY NOMINEE TO BE OUR
ASAR
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT'S
EVENT IN THE ROOSEVELT ROOM AT
THE WHITE HOUSE CONFIRMED WHAT
WAS WIDELY EXPECTED, HE'S CHOSEN
ASH CARTER TO SUCCEED CHUCK
HAGEL AT THE PENTAGON.
>> WITH A RECORD OF SERVICE THAT
HAS SPANNED MORE THAN 30 YEARS
AS A PUBLIC SERVANT, AS AN
ADVISER, AS A SCHOLAR, ASH IS
RIGHTLY REGARDED AS ONE OF OUR
NATION'S FOREMOST NATIONAL
SECURITY LEADERS.
CARTER IS A PENTAGON VETERAN,
ALTHOUGH HE'S NEVER SERVED IN
THE MILITARY HIMSELF.
HE WAS DEPUTY SECRETARY FROM
OCTOBER 2011 TO DECEMBER 2013.
AND BEFORE THAT, THE  TECHNOLOGY
AND WEAPONS-BUYING CHIEF.
>> IT'S AN HONOR AND A PRIVILEGE
FOR ME TO BE NOMINATED FOR THE
POSITION OF SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE.
>> Woodruff: THE HONOR BRINGS
WITH IT A HOST OF MAJOR
CHALLENGES, INCLUDING THE BATTLE
AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS
IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.
WINDING DOWN THE U.S. MISSION IN
AFGHANISTAN.
THE ONGOING CONFLICT IN EASTERN
UKRAINE AND THE RESULTING
STRUGGLE WITH RUSSIA.
AND DEEP BUDGET CUTS STRAINING
THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT.
THERE'S ALSO THE QUESTION OF
WORKING WITH THE WHITE HOUSE.
TWO PREVIOUS SECRETARIES ROBERT
GATES AND LEON PANETTA ACCUSED
OBAMA AIDES OF MICRO-MANAGEMENT.
ANDAGE HL REPORTEDLY COMPLAINED
OF A LACK OF INFLUENCE.
BUT CARTER MADE CLEAR HE MEANS
TO HAVE HIS SAY.
>> IF CONFIRMED IN THIS JOB, I
PLEDGE TO YOU MY MOST CANDID
STRATEGIC ADVICE.
AND I PLEDGE ALSO THAT YOU WILL
RECEIVE EQUALLY CANDID MILITARY
ADVICE.
REPUBLICANS WILL CONTROL THE
SENATE THAT CONSIDERS CARTER'S
NOMINATION.
TODAY, THEY GENERALLY PRAISED
HIS QUALIFICATIONS, BUT ARIZONA
SENATOR JOHN McCAIN WARNED HE,
TOO, MAY HAVE LIMITED SWAY AT
THE WHITE HOUSE.
>> Woodruff: WE EXPLORE ALL THIS
NOW WITH, RETIRED BRIGADIER
GENERAL DAVID McGINNIS, HE WAS A
SENIOR DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIAL DURING PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S FIRST TERM.
AND, DAVID ROTHKOPF, C.E.O. AND
EDITOR OF "FOREIGN POLICY."
HE HAS A NEW BOOK, "NATIONAL
INSECURITY:  AMERICAN LEADERSHIP
IN AN AGE OF FEAR."
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: DAVID ROTHKOPF,
LET ME START WITH YOU, WHAT DO
YOU MAKE OF ASH CARTER TO BE THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE?
>> HE'S A SMART GUY, HE'S VERY
DECISIVE, HE WILL BE CANDID WITH
THE PRESIDENT.
HE HAS A LOT OF EXPERIENCE.
HE'S BRILLIANT.
BUT HE'S JUST ONE MAN.
LEON PANETTA, BOB GATES WERE
EXCELLENT CHOICES ALSO FOR
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AND AS YOU
NOTED IN THE PIECE AT THE
BEGINNING, THEY'VE HAD REAL
PROBLEMS IN THE WHITE HOUSE.
THERE HAVEN'T BEEN CHANGES IN
THE WHITE HOUSE SO I'M NOT SURE
WHY WE EXPECT CHANGE IN
OUTCOMES.
>> Woodruff: GENERAL
McGINNIS, WHAT'S YOUR TAKE ON
ASH CARTER?
>> HE'S SOLID.
HE'S WELL PREPARED FOR THIS JOB.
HE'S BEEN AT THIS BUSINESS AS
THE PRESIDENT MENTIONED FOR TWO
DECADES.
I'VE SEEN HIM WORK IN THE
CLINTON ADMINISTRATION AND I'VE
WORKED WITH HIM IN THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S PROBABLY MUCH MORE
QUALIFIED FOR THE JOB THAN HIS
TWO PREDECESSORS WERE.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU THINK
HE'S GOING TO MANAGE THE
PENTAGON?
WHAT SHOULD WE KNOW ABOUT THAT?
>> HE UNDERSTANDS THE DYNAMICS
OF THE MANAGEMENT BETTER THAN
HIS TWO PREDECESSORS DO.
THERE'S A CRITICAL COMPONENT IN
GETTING THE PRESIDENT THE
ANSWERS HE NEEDS, THE OPTIONS HE
NEEDS TO GET THE JOB DONE TO
MAKE THE RIGHT DECISIONS AS
COMMANDECOMMANDER-IN-CHIEF AND K
HE'S I IN A MUCH BETTER POSITION
TO DO THAT THAN HIS TWO
PREDECESSORS WERE.
>> Woodruff: DAVID ROTHKOPF,
HOW DO YOU SEE HIS ABILITY, HIS
MANAGING THE PENTAGON, HIS
UNDERSTANDING OF THE PENTAGON,
HOW HE'S SEEN BY OFFICIALS OF
THE PENTAGON?
HOW'S THIS DIFFERENT FROM HIS
PREDECESSORS?
>> HE WAS DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR
SOME TIME, WAS THE HEAD OF
PROCUREMENT THERE.
HE'S HAD SEVERAL STINTS WITHIN
THE PENTAGON.
HE KNOWS THE MILITARY BRASS, THE
BUREAUCRACY, HE UNDERSTANDS HOW
TO MAKE IT WORK AND HAS BEEN
EFFECTIVE IN MAKING IT WORK IN
THE PAST AND THAT IS QUITE
DIFFERENT FROM THE FOLKS THAT
PRECEDE HIM THERE IN THIS
ADMINISTRATION.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU STILL
BELIEVE HE'S GOING TO HAVE
DIFFICULTY GETTING DONE WHAT HE
BELIEVES SHOULD BE DONE BECAUSE
OF THE WHITE HOUSE.
>> WELL, LOOK, YOU READ THE
GATES OR THE PANETTA BOOK AND
YOU SEE THE FRUSTRATIONS.
YOU SAW THE FRUSTRATIONS IN
THENNED OF HAGEL'S TERM IN
OFFICE.
I THINK THE PROBLEM IS THIS:
FIRST OF ALL, THE WHITE HOUSE
DOES MICROMANAGE.
THE WHITE HOUSE DOES TEND TO A
TOP-DOWN STYLE THAT HAS
ALIENATED SOME OF ITS CABINET.
BUT SECONDLY, IT'S SEEKING TO
PURSUE COURSE IN A PLACE LIKE
SYRIA AND IRAQ THAT IS FULL OF
AMBIVALENCE AND HALF-WAY
MEASURES AND HE'S GOING TO HAVE
MILITARY BRASS AT HIS BACK
SAYING THAT'S NO WAY TO FIGHT A
WAR.
SOONER OR LATER WHEN HE MAKES
WITH THE WHITE HOUSE, THEY'RE
EITHER GOING ALONG, WHICH WILL
BE A BIG CHANGE, OR NOT, AND HE
WILL FEEL LIKE A SHOCK ABSORBER
AND THE PRECIOUS THAT ULTIMATELY
DID IN HAGEL.
>> Woodruff: GENERAL McAGAIN
NEWS, HOW DO YOU HIM HANDLING IT
WHEN THE MILITARY WANTS ONE
THING AND THE WHITE HOUSE
SOMETHING ELSE.
>> THE MILITARY IS HAPPENING
TODAY LIKE IN THE LAST 40-YEARS,
A TWO-DIMENSIONAL, GEOGRAPHIC
ENVIRONMENT.
YOU'VE HEARD DISCUSSION ABOUT
BOOTS ON THE GROUND.
WE NEED TO PUT PEOPLE ON THE
GROUND TO CONTROL THINGS.
THE REALITY IS THESE CONFLICTS
ARE BEING DEALT WITH IN OTHER
ENVIRONMENTS, INFORMATION
ENVIRONMENT, THE HUMAN
ENVIRONMENT.
THAT'S HOW I.S.I.S. WAS SO
SUCCESSFUL IN MANAGING THE HUMAN
ENVIRONMENT AND MANAGING THE
INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT MONTHS
BEFORE THEY MOVED.
AND THE PENTAGON DOESN'T KNOW
HOW TO DO THAT.
ONE OF THE CHALLENGES ASH IS
GOING TO HAVE IS TO GET THE
PENTAGON TO PROVIDE THE
PRESIDENT REALISTIC OBJECTIVES
IN THESE ENVIRONMENTS AND
CAPABILITIES TO OPERATE IN THOSE
ENVIRONMENTS, AND THAT HASN'T
BEEN HAPPENING.
AND I THINK THE PRESIDENT IS
VERY FRUSTRATED BY THAT OVER THE
YEARS.
>> Woodruff: WHY DO YOU THINK
HE'LL GET IT WHEN THE PEOPLE WHO
PRECEDED HIM DIDN'T?
>> HE'S INNOVATIVE, HE
UNDERSTANDS THE PROCESS AND THE
CAPABILITY OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE, NOT JUST EACH
SERVICE.
EACH SERVICE IS CONSTRAINED BY
ITS CULTURE AND WON'T GO OUTSIDE
THAT CULTURE.
TO BE SUCCESSFUL IN THESE NEW
ENVIRONMENTS, WE HAVE TO COME
TOGETHER IN THE COLD WORE
JOINTNESS.
>> Woodruff: DAVID ROTHKOPF,
WHAT ABOUT THAT?
YOU HEAR THE GENERAL MAKING THE
POINTS THAT ASH CARTER BRINGS
SKILL AND KNOWLEDGE THAT THE
FOLKS WHO CAME BEFORE HIM DIDN'T
HAVE?
>> WELL, HE DOES.
I THINK THE BEST HOPE WE'VE GOT
IS THIS IS THE FOURTH SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE FOR THIS PRESIDENT,
THAT THIS IS THE SIXTH YEAR IN
OFFICE FOR THIS PRESIDENT, THAT
HE'S LEARNED AND THAT HE'S ALSO
FACING A LOT OF PRESSURE THAT
HE'S GOING TO HAVE TO LEARN HOW
TO WORK BET WERE HIS CABINET AND
MILITARY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU MEAN
FACING PRESSURE?
>> WELL, THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
CRITICISM FROM THE OUTSIDE THAT
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES HAS NOT BEEN RESPONSIVE
TO HIS CABINET.
THERE HAVE BEEN ARTICLES ABOUT
ALIENATION.
A LOT OF PEOPLE LEFT.
WASN'T JUST PA PANETTA AND GATES
WHO WROTE THE BOOKS.
SOME IN HILLARY CLINTON'S BOOK
AND VALERY NASER'S BOOK.
SO THERE'S A CHANGE NEEDED, BUT
THERE HASN'T BEEN A LOT OF
EVIDENCE THAT CHANGE HAS TAKEN
PLACE.
ONE CAN REMAIN HOPEFUL.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK
THERE WILL BE A CHANGE IN THE
WAY THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL OPERATES?
>> NO, I THINK IT WILL CONTINUE
TO OPERATE THE WAY IT'S BEEN
OPERATING.
ONE OF THE FRUSTRATIONS OF THE
VIEW OF MICROMANAGEMENT IS THE
PRESIDENT HAS NOT BEEN GETTING
THE INPUT HE WANTED FROM THE
PENTAGON AND THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL HAS BEEN
FILLING THE GAP.
THAT'S BEEN A BIG GAP.
WE CAN GO BACK TO THE START OF
HOW TO DEAL WITH AFGHANISTAN.
THAT TOOK SIX TO EIGHT WEEKS
JUST TO GET A MEETING AND THE
PRESIDENT SATISFIED.
WE CAN'T HAVE A DEFENSE
ESTABLISHMENT THAT OPERATES THAT
WAY AND YOU WANT ITS
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF THAT WAY.
I THINK THE CHANGE HAS TO BE IN
THE PENTAGON, THAT'S WHERE WE
DISAGREE, RATHER THAN IN THE
WHITE HOUSE.
>> Woodruff: WE HEAR IT AND
IT'S ALL BEGINNING TO UNFOLD.
WE'LL WATCH FOR CBS TO GET
CONFIRMED AND WATCH CLOSELY.
GENERAL McGINNIS AND DAVID
ROTHKOPF, WE THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TAKE A DEEPER
DIVE INTO TODAY'S SURPRISING
GOOD LABOR NEWS.
JOBS GROWTH REVVED UP LAST MONTH
WITH MORE THAN 300,000 ADDED.
AT THIS PACE, THE ECONOMY IS ON
TRACK TO PRODUCE THE LARGEST
NUMBER OF JOBS IN 15 YEARS.
ONE DEVELOPMENT THAT ALSO CAUGHT
MUCH ATTENTION, AVERAGE HOURLY
WAGES ROSE HIGHER THAN EXPECTED
THE LARGEST INCREASE SINCE JUNE
OF LAST YEAR.
EVEN SO, EARNINGS HAVE GROWN A
SLUGGLISH TWO PERCENT IN THE
LAST YEAR.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY
FROM OUR NEW YORK STUDIOS.
>> Sreenivasan: I'M JOINED BY
DIANE SWONK WITH A FINANCIAL
SERVICES FIRM.
WHAT'S BEHIND THE HIGHER NUMBER
TODAY?
>> A LOT OF GOOD NEWS.
WE HAD MEET ON THE BONE JOBS IN
THINGS LIKE BUSINESS SERVICES,
AN AREA HARD HIT DURING THE
RECESSION, INCLUDES ACCOUNTANTS,
TECHNICAL CONSULTANTS,
ENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS.
THAT'S THE GOOD NEWS.
WE ALSO SAW MANUFACTURING AND
CONSTRUCTION JOBS, AWFUL LOW
BASE BUT STILL JOBS IN THAT
SECTOR.
THEN A HUGE HIRING IN RETAIL,
ALSO FOOD, RESTAURANTS, ALL
THOSE KIND OF AREAS.
>> Sreenivasan: HOLIDAY
SEASON?
>> NOT JUST HOLIDAY HIRES.
20% WAS IN THE AUTO SECTOR TO
SELL CARS.
WE DON'T TEND TO BUY THOSE FOR
GIFTS IN THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
THE DEPARTMENT STORES AND THE
BIG BOX RETAILERS DIDN'T HIRE UP
AND THAT'S BECAUSE THEY'RE
SHOWING OFF THEIR ONLINE
PRESENCE.
WE SAW WAREHOUSING AND
PACKAGING.
SHIPPERS ARE HIRING BECAUSE LAST
EYEAR WE HAD BAD WEATHER AND
ONLINE SPENDING AND I WAS ONE OF
THE ONES WHO DIDN'T GET THEIR
PRESENTS ON TIME.
IT'S NOT GOOD WHEN IT COMES
THREE DAYS LATER.
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET THAT IN
ORDER ALL YEAR.
>> NOT ALL JOBS ARE CREATED
EQUAL.
WHAT'S THE QUALITY TO HAVE THE
JOBS WE'RE SEEING?
>> WE HAD REALLY GOOD QUALITY
JOBS.
IN THE LAST SIX MONTHS, WE'RE
SEEING THE GOOD QUALITY JOBS
COMING BACK.
THE TEMPORARY HIRES WE USED TO
TALK ABOUT, THESE ARE NOT
TEMPORARY.
THESE ARE FULL-TIME HIRES AND
FULL-TIME JOBS.
ON THE OTHER SIDE, A LARGE
MAJORITY OF THE JOBS ARE
MINIMUM-WAGE JOBS AND ALSO THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE TAKING MULTIPLE
JOBS WENT UP THERE MONTH AND
PART OF IT IS THINGS NOT RELATED
TO RETAIL HIRING SEASON BUT ALSO
HEDGING AGAINST THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, THEY'RE NOT PROVIDING
HEALTHCARE BUT THEY HAVE TO GET
HOURS DOWN BELOW 30 HOURS AND
SOME PEOPLE IN THE RESTAURANT
WORK 48 HOURS A WEEK SO THEY'RE
SPLITTING ONE JOB INTO ALMOST
TWO.
>> Sreenivasan: SO MORE
PART-TIME WORK.
>> EXACTLY AND WE'RE SEEING MORE
PEOPLE HOLD MULTIPLE JOBS AND A
NUMBER PEOPLE ACCEPTING
PART-TIME WHEN LOOKING FULL-TIME
IS HIGH.
A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
WE DIDN'T LAND ON THE MOON,
BECAUSE AS GOOD AS THE NUMBER
WAS, WE HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO.
>> Sreenivasan: WE HAVE THE
CAVEATS WHEN WE LOOK AT THE
NUMBERS, BUT HOW MANY MONTHS DO
WE NEED TO GO BACK TO SAY THERE
IS SOMETHING POSITIVE HAPPENING
HERE?
>> THIS HAS BEEN A TRANSITIONAL
YEAR.
WE GET THE MEET ON THE BONE
JOBS, THE FULL-TIME JOBS THAT
ARE GRADUATE JOBS.
ONE OF THE PLACES WE HAVE, A
SHORTAGE OF WORKERS, PEOPLE WITH
FIVE YEARS' EXPERIENCE, WHAT
WERE PEOPLE DOING FIVE YEARS
AGO, THEY WEREN'T GETTING HIRED.
IN MANY CASES, YOU'RE SEEING
SOMEONE THAT HAS A LOT OF
EXPERIENCE.
EXPERIENCE BROUGHT IN AT LOW
PAY.
THERE IS MISMATCHING.
THIS YEAR WE STARTED TO SEE THE
FULL-TIME JOBS COME BACK.
NOT ENOUGH.
WE STILL ARE FAR TOO RELIANT ON
PART TIME AND MINIMUM-WAGE JOBS.
QUALITY MATTERS AS MUCH AS
QUANTITY WHEN YOU'RE GENERATING
JOBS BECAUSE YOU NEED TO SEA
WAGES PICK UP.
THE MAJORITY OF HOUSEHOLDS ARE
TRYING TO REGAIN GROUND LOST
DURING THE GREAT RECESSION.
THIS MIGHT BE THE BEST YEAR OF
JOB GENERATION SINCE 1999, BUT
1999 WAS THE YEAR WE WERE
RUNNING OUT OF PEOPLE TO EMPLOY.
THAT'S NOT THE JOB TODAY.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN YOU TALK
ABOUT MINIMUM-WAGE OR LOW HOURLY
WAGES, THEY'RE NOT KEEPING ONE
INFLATION, RIGHT?
>> SOME OF THEM ARE NOT.
SOME OF THEM WILL SEE
MINIMUM-WAGE GO UP.
SOME 25 STATES HAVE BEEN GOING
UP, HALF THE STATES, IN 2015.
IN TERMS OF WHAT HAPPENS, IF
YOU'RE WORKING TWO JOBS, IT'S A
LOT HARDER TO MANAGE WORKING TWO
JOBS THAN ONE.
SO EVEN IF YOUR MINIMUM-WAGE
GOES UP, IF YOU HAVE THE OTHER
ISSUES HOLDING HOURS DOWN, AGAIN
STILL DIFFICULT, WE'LL REALLY
SEE, THESE ARE NICE BROAD-BASED
GAMES, THAT'S GOOD.
WE NEED TO SEE A LOT MORE OF
THOSE, AND EXTENDED PERIOD OF
TIME, WAGES.
NOT 2% GAINS OF A YEAR AGO BUT
3% PLUS TO REGAIN GROUND LOST
AND THAT'S THE KEY.
I THINK WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO GET
THAT, START GETTING THERE IN
2015, BUT WE STILL HAVE A LONG
WAY TO GO.
>> Sreenivasan: DIAN DIANE SWON,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: PROTESTS SPRUNG UP
ACROSS AMERICA AS ANOTHER GRAND
JURY CHOSE NOT TO INDICT A
POLICE OFFICER IN A KILLING OF
AN UNARMED BLACK MAN AND IN
WASHINGTON, PRESIDENT OBAMA
ANNOUNCED HIS CHOICE FOR THE NEW
LEADER OF THE PENTAGON.
WE TURN TO THE ANALYSIS OF
SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS, WHO
JOINS US FROM NEW YORK.
HELLO, GENTLEMEN.
SO WE'VE JUST HEARD, DAVID, THE
ANALYSIS ON THE JOBS REPORT.
DO WE FINALLY HAVE SOMETHING TO
CHEER ABOUT HERE IN.
>> I THINK SO.
WE MIGHT AS WELL TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF IT.
WE'VE HAD A LOT OF SCUFFLING
ALONG AND THAT SEEMS TO HAVE
STOPPED.
WHAT'S IMPRESSIVE TO ME MOSTLY
IS OUR JOB PERFORMANCE COMPARED
TO EUROPE.
IF YOU TALK TO MOST EUROPEANS,
THEY'RE A BIT OF A FUNK.
YOU HAVE HIGH YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT
RATES.
SO WE'RE DOING PRETTY WELL,
PARTLY ACCREDITED TO THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
WE MIGHT AS WELL TAKE A VICTORY
LAP OUT OF.
THIS WE'VE COME OUT OF THE
RECESSION BETTER THAN OUR PEERS,
PARTLY TO THE AMERICAN SYSTEM,
WHICH HAS SOME DISADVANTAGES,
BUT HAS ADVANTAGES WHICH IS
DYNOMISM.
>> Woodruff: TIME FOR A
VICTORY LAP?
>> I THINK SO.
THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CHAIRMAN
SAID 300,000 JOBS, 223,000
CREATED, OUGHT TO BE EXPECTED
EVERY MONTH, SHOULDN'T BE AN
EXCEPTION.
JUST FROM AN HISTORICAL
PERSPECTIVE, DURING THE EIGHT
YEARS OF PRESIDENT BUSH, THERE
WERE 2.1 MILLION NET JOBS
CREATED IN THE UNITED STATES AND
OF THAT 2.1 MILLION, 1.8 MILLION
WERE IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR,
STATE, LOCAL OR FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
THAT MEANS THERE WERE 300,000
JOBS IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR
CREATED IN EIGHT YEARS NET.
SO, I MEAN, THIS IS RATHER
REMARKABLE.
AND I JUST POINT OUT THAT IN
THE -- DAVID TOUCHED ON THE FACT
THAT MORE JOBS HAVE BEEN CREATED
IIN THE UNITED STATES IN THE LAT
FOUR YEARS THAN EUROPE, JAPAN,
ALL THE INDUSTRIALIZED MODERN
WORLD COMBINED.
AND IT'S ONE LITTLE ITEM AND NOT
IMPORTANT, AND DAVID AND I
DISAGREE, 70 YEARS SINCE WORLD
WAR II.
IN THOSE 70 YEARS, THERE WERE
36.7 MILLION JOBS CREATED BY
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTS, A LITTLE
OVER HALF THE TIME.
IN 34 YEARS, THERE WERE
63.7 MILLION CREATED BY
DEMOCRATS.
29 MILLION MORE.
PERHAPS IT'S AN ACCIDENT ONCE OR
TWICE OR WHAT, BUT, I MEAN, AT
SOME POINT, THE DEMOCRATS OUGHT
TO BE TRUMPETING THE FACT THAT
THEY HAVE BEEN BETTER ON THE
ECONOMY AND JOB CREATION THAN
HAVE BEEN THEIR OPPOSITION.
>> Woodruff: DAVID?
I WAS AFRAID YOU WERE GOING
TO TURN TO ME.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Woodruff: I WAS GOING TO
SEE WHAT YOUHEAD TO SAY ABOUT
THAT.
>> NO, LISTEN, IF THE PRESIDENT
COULD TURN UP A DIAL AND CREATE
JOBS, THAT WOULD BE CREATE.
THE CORRELATION BETWEEN POLICY
AND ACTUAL JOB CREATION, THERE'S
A HUGE AMOUNT OF LAG AND THEY
DON'T HAVE THAT ABILITY.
A LOT OF IT IS THE FUNCTION OF
THE PSYCHLYICLE LABOR MARKET.
PRESIDENT BUSH, A LOT OF JOBS
WERE WIPED OUT IN THE GRAND
RECESSION.
SO BUSINESS CYCLES COME AND GO.
WHAT THE GOVERNMENT CAN DO IS
CREATE LANDSCAPE TO CREATE
LONG-TERM JOB GROWTH, BUT IT'S
RARE THAT AN ADMINISTRATION HAS
THE ABILITY TO TURN IT ON AND
OFF.
>> IT'S 15 YEARS SINCE WE'VE HAD
10 CONSECUTIVE MONTHS OF OVER
200,000.
THOSE 15 YEARS AGO, THERE WAS A
FELLOW FROM ARKANSAS WHO WAS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
THOSE WERE EIGHT YEARS OF RATHER
MARKABLE SUSTAINED GROWTH.
CERTAINLY OTHER CRITICISMS OF
BILL CLINTON'S LEADERSHIP, BUT
IT'S HARD TO ARGUE THAT THE FACT
THERE WERE MORE JOBS CREATED IN
BLILTEN'S EIGHT YEARS THAN IN
RONALD REAGAN'S EIGHT YEARS AND
IN THE 12 YEARS OF BOTH BUSHES
COMBINED.
AT SOME POINT, POLICY KICKS IN
AND IS REFLECTED IN THE RESULTS.
>> Woodruff: WE MAY NOT
RESOLVE ALL THIS RIGHT HERE.
I WANT TO MOVE ON, DAVID, TO ASH
CARTER, THE PRESIDENT'S
NOMINATION TO BE THE NEXT
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
WE JUST HEARD CONVERSATION ABOUT
HOW THINGS MAY OR MAY NOT
CHANGE.
WHAT'S YOUR SENSE OF THAT?
DO YOU THINK WE'LL SEE DIFFERENT
POLICY COMING OUT OF THE
PENTAGON OUT OF THIS
ADMINISTRATION NOW?
>> CARTER HAS ESSENTIAL
QUALIFICATION FOR DEFENSE
SECRETARY WHICH IS HE STUDIED
MEDIEVAL HISTORY IN YALE AND A
Ph.D. IN THEORETICAL PHYSICS
FROM OXFORD, SO OBVIOUSLY AN
ACADEMIC SLOUCH.
(LAUGHTER)
YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK THINGS
ARE GOING TO CHANGE.
I THINK THIS IS A WHITE
HOUSE-CENTRIC ADMINISTRATION AND
I ASSUME IT WILL REMAIN THAT,
BUT THERE'S NO QUESTION HE'S A
VERY STRONG CHOICE.
I THINK SOME OF US HAVE BEEN
CONCERNED WITH THIS
ADMINISTRATION, AS IT HAS GONE
ON, YOU HAVE FEWER BIG
PERSONALITIES, STRONG VOICES,
AND CARTER CERTAINLY QUALIFIES
AS ONE OF THOSE.
>> I THINK HE BRINGS ENORMOUS
CREDENTIALS AND HE DOES BRING A
RECORD OF HAVING STOOD UP TO THE
TROOPS, PARTICULARLY IN
PROVIDING ARMOR AND ARMORED
VEHICLES FOR THEM AGAINST
RESISTANCE IN IRAQ.
I COMMEND AND SALUTE HIM FOR
THAT.
BUT HE ALSO IS ON RECORD IN 2006
OF URGING THE UNITED STATES TO
BOMB THE NUCLEAR FACILITIES OF
NORTH KOREA, AND HE OBVIOUSLY
WAS ONE OF THE PEOPLE ARGUING
THAT WE SHOULD STILL KEEP TROOPS
IN AFGHANISTAN -- IN IRAQ IN
2011, AFTER 2011.
I DO THINK, JUDY, DAVID IS
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT ABOUT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
NOTICE, NOW, THEY'VE HAD THREE
ENTIRELY DIFFERENT SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE ALL WITH THE IDENTICAL
CRITICISM OF MICROMANAGEMENT
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE.
IT ALL BEGINS WITH BARACK OBAMA.
EVERY ADMINISTRATION, EVERY
WHITE HOUSE IS ULTIMATELY A
MIRROR REFLECTION OF THE MAN AT
THE TOP.
THIS IS WHAT HE IS COMFORTABLE
WITH, WHAT HE HAS ENCOURAGED,
CONDONED AND THIS IS THE
STRUCTURE HE'S CREATED.
IF IT'S GOING TO CHANGE, IT HAS
TO BEGIN CHANGING WITH HIM.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO BRING
UP SOMETHING ELSE WE HAVE BEEN
COVERING EVERY NIGHT THIS WEEK
AND THAT IS, FOR THE SECOND
TIME, WE'VE HAD A GRAND JURY,
DAVID, DECIDE NOT TO INDICT A
WHITE POLICE OFFICER IN THE
DEATH OF AN UNARMED BLACK MAN,
MOST RECENTLY ERIC GARNER IN
NEW YORK.
THEY LISTENED TO TESTIMONY FOR A
COUPLE OF MONTHS, TO 50
WITNESSES, BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THIS ON TOP OF FERGUSON AND SOME
OF THE OTHER CASES AROUND THE
COUNTRY AND THE PROTESTS
CONTINUING NIGHT AFTER NIGHT,
HOW WIDESPREAD IS THE PROBLEM
WITH POLICE USE OF DEADLY FORCE
AGAINST UNARMED BLACKS IN THIS
COUNTRY?
>> YEAH, I THINK IT'S OBVIOUSLY
WIDESPREAD.
I WATCHED THE PROTESTS ON 14t
14th STREET LAST NIGHT AND IN
MIDTOWN.
WHAT STRUCK ME AND WHAT I WAS
CURIOUS TO SEE IS WHETHER THE
PROTESTERS WHO WERE PRETTY ANGRY
WERE TAKEN OUT ON THE LOCAL
COPS, WHETHER THERE WAS A CLASS
CONFLICT BETWEEN THE PROTESTERS
AND THE COPS LIKE IN 1968.
I HAVE TO SAY THERE WAS NOT.
THE PROTESTERS ARE WELL BEHAVED
AND NO CLASH WITH THE COPS THAT
WERE SUPERVISING THEM.
THE PROTESTERS WERE ANGRY BUT
MATURE AND CIVIL AND TRYING TO
MAKE THEIR CASE.
TWO ISSUES HERE, ONE IS THE
RACIAL WHICH IN THE STATEN
ISLAND CASE WHICH IS BLATANTLY
OBVIOUS, BUT THE SECOND IS COP
BEHAVIOR.
HOW DO YOU RESTORE ORDER IN THE
STREETS.
DO YOU ALWAYS HAVE TO GO TO
MAXIMUM FORCE?
I'VE COVERED COPS IN MY CAREER
AND THEY HAVE TO ARMOR UP.
THEY'RE IN A TOUGH JOB AND TOUGH
SITUATION ALL THE TIME SO THEY
PUT ON EMOTIONAL ARMOR AND
THEY'RE SOMETIMES VERY CYNICAL
ABOUT THE PEOPLE THEY HAVE TO BE
AROUND JUST BECAUSE THEY
COULDN'T SURVIVE EMOTIONALLY IF
THEY WEREN'T AND THAT COULD LEAD
TO A CALLOUSNESS, SO WE NEED TO
HAVE THIS RACIAL CONVERSATION
BUT ALSO AN AUTHORITY
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHETHER
POLICE RESTORE ORDER AND WHETHER
THEY'RE JUST TOO MACHO.
>> Woodruff: HOW WIDESPREAD,
DO YOU THINK?
IS THIS ISOLATED INCIDENCES OR
IN MANY, MANY PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY?
>> I DON'T KNOW, JUDY.
I WOULD SAY GIVEN THE REACTION
OF SOME PEOPLE NOT ONLY
AFRICAN-AMERICAN BUT LATINO AS
WELL THAT ENOUGH PEOPLE FEEL
THERE IS A PATTERN.
IT'S HARD TO LOOK AT THE STATEN
ISLAND FILM AND NOT BELIEVE THAT
THIS WAS WRONG.
>> Woodruff: ERIC GARNER.
ERIC GARNER.
THIS MAN WAS NOT PHYSICALLY
THREATENING OR MENACING.
HE WAS SELLING INDIVIDUAL
CIGARETTES TO HOMELESS PEOPLE.
SO THE CRIME IS TAX EVASION.
IF THIS IS THE BIGGEST CRIME OF
TAX EVASION IN NEW YORK CITY
GOING ON AT ANY GIVEN MOMENT I
WOULD FRANKLY BE ASTOUNDED.
THE IDEA THAT YOU'RE GOING TO
USE UH A CHOKE HOLD -- IT SEEMED
THE FIRST POLICE OFFICER WAS
ACTUALLY TALKING HIM DOWN AND
THE OFFICER WENT FROM BEHIND AND
GRABBED HIM WITH THE CHOKE HOLD
THAT ULTIMATELY WAS FATAL.
IT'S HARD TO LOOK AT THIS AND
SAY THAT THIS WASN'T
OVERREACTION ON THE PART OF THE
POLICE.
FERGUSON IS CONFLICTING
TESTIMONY.
YOU KNOW, WE HEARD DIFFERENT
THINGS.
THIS ONE JUST DOES SEEM, QUITE
FRANKLY, CLEAR-CUT, AND IT'S
HARD -- DAVID'S RIGHT, THE
POLICE PUT THEIR LIVES ON THE
LINE IN DIFFICULT SITUATIONS.
THIS WAS NOT A LIFE-THREATENING
SITUATION.
THERE WAS NO WAY THAT ANY OF THE
POLICE OFFICERS THERE FELT THAT
HE WAS PERSONALLY THREATENED BY
THIS SITUATION.
THIS WAS NOT A MENACING FIGURE
OR A VIOLENT MAN.
>> Woodruff: DAVID, YOU WERE
SAYING WE NEEDED TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION ABOUT RACE AND
ANOTHER CONVERSATION ABOUT
AUTHORITY AND HOW AUTHORITY IS
EXERTED.
YOU HAVE THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
INVESTIGATING ON ITS OWN AFTER
THE GRAND JURY DECISION.
IS THAT A WAY TO HAVE THE
CONVERSATIONS?
IS THAT PART OFTA WAY WE COME
TOGETHER ON THIS?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF WE'LL COME
TOGETHER, BUT WE CAN CERTAINLY
CHANGE POLICY.
WASHINGTON HAS HAD A VERY
CORRUPTING INFLUENCE HERE.
WASHINGTON HAS LITERALLY ARMORED
UP.
I TALKED ABOUT EMOTIONAL ARMOR,
BUT THIS IS LITERAL ARMOR, THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAS GIVEN A
LOT OF POLICE OFFICERS BEG
WEAPONRY AND WITH THAT GOES A
SWAGGER AND A DISTANCE FROM THE
PEOPLE BEING POLICED.
SO WE'VE HYPER MILITARIZED AND
IN SOME CASES HYPERRER
MACHOIZED.
THERTHERE'S A LOT OF TESTOSTEROE
FLOWING AROUND.
THERE HAS TO BE A TIME WHEN THE
POLICE OFFICER STEPS BACK TO
DIFFUSE.
THE STATEN ISLAND CASE, CLEARLY,
WITH PETTY AUTHORITY COMES THE
SIN OF BULLYING AND THIS GUY
SEEMS TO HAVE JUST USED THAT
PETTY AUTHORITY AND BEEN
CORRUPTED AND BRUTALIZED BY IT,
FRANKLY.
SO THAT HAS TO GO INTO THE
TRAINING.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE THE MORAL
RESPONSIBILITY OF PEOPLE WITH
SMALL AMOUNTS OF AUTHORITY BUT
POSSIBLY LIFE-THREATENING ONES.
>> Woodruff: MARK?
THE REACTION, JUDY, IN THE
TWO CITIES, I MEAN, THE
REFLECTION IS OF THE POLITICAL
LEADERSHIP OF DeBLASIO IN
NEW YORK WHO HAS A
RACIALLY-MIXED CHILD HIMSELF,
WHO IS DIFFERENT FROM FERGUSON
WHERE THE POLICE FORCE WAS
OVERWHELMINGLY WHITE, WHERE THE
POLITICAL LEADERSHIP WAS WHITE.
AND DAVID DESCRIBED THE
DEMONSTRATIONS IN NEW YORK WHICH
HAVE BEEN QUITE CIVIL AND
ORDERLY AS OPPOSED TO FERGUSON
WHERE THE FIRST PROTEST WAS
BREAKING INTO A LIQUOR STORE.
I THINK THE SITUATIONS ARE FAR
FROM IDENTICAL, BUT REFLECTIVE
IN BOTH CASES OF THE SITUATIONS
OF POLITICAL LEADERSHIP AS WELL
AS THE RELATIONSHIP TO THE
POLICE IN BOTH CASES.
>> Woodruff: HOPEFULLY A LOT
OF REFLECTING GOING ON RIGHT NOW
AS WELL AS BOTH PROTESTING AND
REFLECTING.
IT'S A TIME.
IT'S CERTAINLY A TIME FOR PEOPLE
TO THINK SOME MORE ABOUT THIS.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS, WE
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Woodruff: WE WANT TO STEP
BACK FOR A MOMENT NOW SUNDAY
MARKS THE 73RD ANNIVERSARY OF
THE PEARL HARBOR ATTACK.
TONIGHT WE BRING YOU A RARE
SURVIVOR OF THAT DAY A U.S.
MILITARY PLANE THAT IS THE LAST
OF ITS KIND.
WE TAGGED ALONG AT THE
SMITHSONIAN'S AIR AND SPACE
MUSEUM'S UDVAR HAZY CENTER AS
CURATOR JEREMY KINNEY SHOWED OFF
THE SEAPLANE TO A VOLUNTEER AND
EXPLAINED THE DEBATE OVER HOW TO
RESTORE IT.
>> MOST FLYING BOATS BY THE NAVY
PERFORM THE PATROL FUNCTION, AND
THAT'S WHAT THIS AIRPLANE DID IN
THE AFTERMATH OF PEARL HARBOR.
THIS IS IS A SAKORSKY J.R.S.-1
FLYING BOAT, PRESENT AT PEARL
HARBOR ON DECEMBER 7, 1941.
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT ARTIFACT IN
REGARDS TO THE STORY OF AMERICA
AND DECEMBER 7, THE PEARL HARBOR
ATTACK.
IT'S AN UNARMED AIRPLANE AND A
SNEAK ATTACK ON PEARL HARBOR.
THIS AIRPLANE WAS PUT INTO
SERVICE IMMEDIATELY IN RESPONSE
TO THE JAPANESE ATTACK.
IN MANY WAYS, AMERICA WAS THE
SAME WAY.
AMERICANS JUST JUMPED RIGHT INTO
THE FIGHT AND GET INTO WORLD
WAR II.
SO THIS IS AN ICONIC SYMBOL OF
THE FIRST DAY OF THE WAR FOR THE
UNITED STATES.
THIS PARTICULAR J.S.R.-1 IS A
SOLE SURVIVOR.
THERE IS AN S.43 WHICH SURVIVED.
BUT THE J.S., SEVE 10 AT PEARL
HARBOR.
THIS IS ONE OF THE FIRST
AMPHIBIANS OPERATED BY THE U.S.
NAVY.
THAT'S WHY IT'S ABLE TO BE HERE
BECAUSE IT HAS LAND GEAR ON IT.
IF WE RESTORE IT, EVERYTHING
THAT'S ORIGINAL IS REMOVED
PRETTY MUCH OR PAINTED OVER.
SO, I MEAN, THIS IS ORIGINAL
GLASS, NO MATTER HOW BAD IT
LOOKS.
THIS IS THE ORIGINAL PAINT, NO
MATTER HOW BADLY CHIPPED AND
CRACKED IT IS, THE PEELING
FABRIC, WHICH THERE ARE WAYS TO
REPAIR THAT.
THESE ARE THINGS CURATORS AND
SPECIALISTS AGONIZE OVER.
IT'S A BIG DEBATE IN TERMS OF
WHAT WE WANT TO DO WITH IT
BECAUSE IT'S ONLY ORIGINAL ONCE,
EVEN THOUGH IT'S IN ROUGH SHAPE.
AND THE IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH OF
THE ATTACK ON PEARL HARBOR, THIS
J.R.S. FLEW IN SEARCH OF
JAPANESE SUBMARINES AND THE
JAPANESE CARRIER FLEET.
AS THE MONTHS WORE ON THROUGH
1942, IT CONTINUED TO SUPPORT
THE MISSION FOR NAVY FIGHTING,
BOMBING AND TORPEDO SQUADRONS.
THIS PARTICULAR J.R.S. FLEW
UNTIL 1944 WITH THE U.S. NAVY.
IT WENT INTO STORAGE.
THE NAVY KEPT IT AS AN AIRPLANE.
IT ACTUALLY PERFORMED YEOMAN
ERVISCE WITH THE NATIONAL
ADVISORY COMMIT WITH FOR AIRO
ENACTS WHICH IS NASA TODAY AS AN
TESTING PLATFORM.
THIS AREA IS FOR TREATMENT,
WHETHER PRESERVATION OR
RESTORATION OF THE MUSEUM'S
LARGE AIRCRAFT ARTIFACTS AND IS
HERE TODAY TO SHOW THE PUBLIC OF
WHAT THE CONDITION OF THE
MUSEUM'S AIRCRAFT ARE IN.
IT'S SLATED FOR RESTORATION IN
THE FUTURE.
ETH NOT CURRENTLY BEING WORKED
ON, BUT IT WILL BE SOON.
IT'S HERE NOW TO SHOW THESE
PEOPLE WHAT THESE AIRPLANES LOOK
LIKE BEFORE THE STAFF AND
TECHNICIANS OF THE PRESERVATION
AND RESTORATION UNIT OF THE
MUSEUM GET TO IT.
THIS IS A PAINTING OF WHAT THE
J.R.S. ONE WOULD HAVE LOOKED
LIKE ON DECEMBER 7, 1941.
THIS IS AN AIRPLANE THAT IS
PAINTED TO REFLECT ITS SUPPORT
MISSION.
IT MOVES IN THE MUSEUM TO
PRESERVATION.
YOU LOOK AT THIS ARTIFACT, IF
YOU WANT TO PRESERVE IT, YOU
ESSENTIALLY LEAVE IT AS IT IS,
BECAUSE ITS HISTORY,
THEORETICALLY, IS UP TO THE
PRESENT, RATHER THAN TRYING TO
GO BACK TO DECEMBER 7.
WELL, YOU KNOW, IT'S HISTORY OF
THIS PARTICULAR ARTIFACT IS WHAT
BROUGHT IT HERE.
IT'S NOT ONLY AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT
NEEDS TO BE DONE TO AN AIRCRAFT
IN THE COLLECTION IN TERMS OF
PRESERVATION AND RESTORATION BUT
ALSO HAS THE STUNNING PEARL
HARBOR CONNECTION THAT ALL
AMERICANS CAN RELATE TO.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL BE BACK WITH
A LOOK AT THE NEW QUESTIONS
BEING RAISED OVER "ROLLING
STONE'S" REPORTING ON SEXUAL
ASSAULT AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
VIRGINIA.
BUT FIRST, IT'S PLEDGE WEEK ON
PBS.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
AND THAT SUPPORT HELPS KEEP
PROGRAMS LIKE OURS ON THE AIR.
>> Woodruff: NEW QUESTIONS AND
DOUBTS ARE BEING RAISED ABOUT
THE STORY OF AN ALLEGED GANG
RAPE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
VIRGINIA, AN ACCOUNT THAT
GRABBED NATIONAL ATTENTION,
INCLUDING OURS.
THE STORY, FIRST PUBLISHED IN
"ROLLING STONE," DETAILED
THE ALLEGED BRUTAL RAPE OF A
FRESHMAN AT A FRATERNITY HOUSE
TWO YEARS AGO.
THE VICTIM SAID SHE WAS
ASSAULTED BY SEVEN MEN OVER
THREE HOURS WHILE TWO OTHERS
WATCHED, INCLUDING HER REPORTED
DATE.
"ROLLING STONE'S" MANAGING
EDITOR PUBLISHED A NOTE TODAY
ABOUT DISCREPANCIES IN THE
VICTIM'S STORY.
HE WROTE, "WE HAVE COME TO THE
CONCLUSION THAT OUR TRUST IN HER
WAS MISPLACED."
THE FRATERNITY, PHI KAPPA PSI,
DISPUTED PARTS OF HER STORY
AND...
>> THE CHAPTER DID NOT HAVE A
DATE FUNCTION OR A SCOAIL EVENT
DURING THE WEEKEND OF SEPTEMBER
28, 2012.
...THERE WAS NO SOCIAL EVENT AT
THE HOUSE ON THE NIGHT IN
QUESTION.
WE INVITED "ROLLING STONE" AND
THE REPORTER WHOM WE INTERVIEWED
BEFORE ABOUT THIS TO APPEAR
TONIGHT.
WE ALSO INVITED THE UNIVERSITY
OF VIRGINIA. ALL DECLINED.
REPORTER TAYLOR REES SHAPIRO
BROKE PART OF THIS STORY FOR THE
WASHINGTON POST.
HE JOINS ME FROM A UNIVERSITY
STUDIO IN CHARLOTTESVILLE.
AND WE WELCOME YOU TO THE
PROGRAM.
TAYLOR REES SHAPIRO, THIS IS AN
HORRIFIC STORY AS IT WAS FIRST
REPORTED.
WHAT PARTS OF THE ALLEGED
VICTIM'S ACCOUNT HAVE NOW BEEN
CALLED INTO QUESTION?
>> WELL, IT'S BEEN CALLED INTO
QUESTION THE DATES -- FIRST OF
ALL, THE DATE SHE SAID IT
OCCURRED.
SHE SAID ITO CURVED
SEPTEMBER 28, 2012 WHICH WOULD
HAVE BEEN EARLY ON HER FRESHMAN
YEAR IN CAMPUS.
THE FRATERNITY RELEASED A
STATEMENT THEY HAD NOT HOSTED
ANY PARTIES THAT ENTIRE WEEKEND
WHICH CALLS INTO QUESTION THE
TIMING OF WHAT SHE SAID THE
ALLEGATIONS HAD OCCURRED.
IN ADDITION, IT'S NOT CLEAR
PRECISELY WHO WAS AMONG HER
ALLEGED ATTACKERS.
SHE HAD SAID FOR YEARS EVEN, YOU
KNOW, SINCE FROM THE VERY
BEGINNING, THAT SHE HAD
IDENTIFIED ONE OF THE MEN SHE
BELIEVED WAS INVOLVED THAT, IN
FACT, THEY WERE SOMEBODY THAT
SHE HAD BEEN DATING HIM, YOU
KNOW, HAD GONE OUT ON A DATE
WITH HIM.
WHEN PRESSED, AND SHE FINALLY
GAVE UP A NAME TO HER FRIENDS
ABOUT WHO IT WAS, SOME DIGGING
INTO HIS BACKGROUND, YOU KNOW,
INITIALLY RAISED SOME, YOU KNOW,
QUESTIONS ABOUT HER ACCOUNT
BECAUSE THINGS DIDN'T LINE UP.
IT APPEARED THAT THE PERSON
INVOLVED WAS, IN FACT, NEVER A
MEMBER OF PHI KAPPA PSI, AND
OTHER DETAILS ABOUT HIS
BACKGROUND DIDN'T MATCH OTHER
PREVIOUSLY RELEASED INFORMATION
SHE'D GIVEN PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: YOU TALKED TO HER
SEVERAL TIMES, YOU WROTE, IN
YOUR STORY.
HOW IS SHE EXPLAINING THESE
DISCREPANCIES?
>> SHE STICKS BY HER STORY.
SHE BELIEVES THAT THE ACCOUNTF O
WHAT SHE GAVE IS THE TRUTH.
I GAVE HER MULTIPLE
OPPORTUNITIES IN INTERVIEWS TO
TELL ME THE REAL EVENTS AS THEY
HAD ACTUALLY OCCURRED THAT
NIGHT.
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO TELL, FROM
WHAT WE KNOW HOW, WHAT REALLY
DID HAPPEN.
IT APPEARS PRETTY CLEAR THAT SHE
FACED SOME SORT OF TRAUMA, I
CAN'T SAY FOR SURE.
BUT OTHER DETAILS AS THEY EMERGE
ARE CALLING INTO QUESTIONS OTHER
PARTS OF HER STORY.
>> Woodruff: NOW, YOU ALSO
TALKED WITH HER FRIENDS, OTHER
PEOPLE WHO KNEW HER AT THE TIME
THIS HAPPENED.
WHAT ARE THEY SAYING?
>> HER FRIENDS ARE DEVASTATED.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE,
ABOUT EVERYTHING.
IT'S HARD TO KNOW WHAT TO
BELIEVE.
IT'S PRETTY CLEAR NOW THE
DETAILS RELATED IN THE FIRST
ARTICLE, YOU KNOW, DID NOT LINE
UP WITH STUFF THAT'S PRETTY EASY
TO CHECK OUT, SUCH AS THE FACT
WHETHER OR NOT A PARTY WAS HELD
AT THAT HOUSE THAT WEEKEND.
FROM NOW, IT'S ABOUT BUILDING
TRUST.
IT'S ABOUT BUILDING TRUST
BETWEEN HER AND OTHER PEOPLE
AROUND HER AND ABOUT THE PEOPLE
WHO TRUSTED HER TO -- FOR HER TO
TELL THEM THE TRUE STORY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
FRATERNITY?
THEY WERE ASKED, I GATHER, BY
ROLLING STONE STARTING MONTHS
AGO AND IT WASN'T TILL JUST
TODAY THEY PUT OUT A STATEMENT
SAYING, YOU KNOW, AS YOU SAID,
THAT THE DATE, THERE WASN'T A
SOCIAL EVENT THAT NIGHT, AND SO
FORTH.
DO YOU HAVE A BETTER SENSE OF
THEIR PERSPECTIVE IN THIS?
>> I'VE SPOKEN WITH MEMBERS OF
THE FRATERNITY THROUGHOUT MY
REPORTING.
WE REACHED OUT TO THEM FROM THE
VERY BEGINNING BECAUSE WE WANTED
TO MAKE SURE WE GOT ALL SIDES OF
THIS STORY.
THEY WERE HARD-PRESSED.
FEW PEOPLE ACTUALLY TALKED TO US
ON THE PHONE AND IF THEY DID,
THEY JUST SAID THEY DIDN'T WANT
TO COMMENT.
OBVIOUSLY, THEY WERE UNDER FIRE.
THEY WERE UNDER PRESSURE.
SINCE THEN, PEOPLE HAVE ALREADY
COME FORWARD TO ME SAYING THEY
FEEL RELIEF.
THEY HAD EVEN BEGUN TO DOUBT
THEMSELVES.
IT'S HARD TO SAY YOU KNOW
EVERYTHING THAT GOES ON IN A
FRATERNITY HOUSE IN ANY WEEKEND,
BUT THEY NOW FEEL SOME SENSE OF
VALIDITY THAT THEIR SIDE WAS THE
TRUTH FROM THE VERY BEGINNING.
>> Woodruff: WHAT HAPPENS NOW
AT THE UNIVERSITY?
ARE THEY INVESTIGATING?
WE KNOW FROM OTHER REPORTING
THERE WERE OTHER RAPES THAT
REPORTEDLY HAD TAKEN PLACER
STUDENTS HAVE GIVEN ACCOUNTS OF
THAT AT THE UNIVERSITY.
ARE THOSE INVESTIGATIONS
CONTINUING?
WHAT IS THE UNIVERSITY SAYING
GOING FORWARD?
>> IT'S PRETTY CLEAR THIS
ARTICLE AND OTHER ALLEGATIONS
FROM THIS RESULTED IN SOME
SERIOUS SORT OF SOUL SEARCHING
HERE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
VIRGINIA FOR GOOD REASON.
SEXUAL ASSAULT IS A SERIOUS
PROBLEM ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES
EVERYWHERE, AND I THINK THEY,
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING, SAID
THEY NEEDED TO ADDRESS IT.
REGARDLESS OF THE FACTS OF THIS
SPECIFIC INCIDENT, I THINK THE
NEED FOR THEM TO ADDRESS THIS
ISSUE ON THE CAMPUS STILL
EXISTS.
>> Woodruff: YOU ALSO TALKED
TO OTHER WOMEN WHO SAID THEY
WERE SEXUAL ASSAULTED AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, SOME OF
THEM EXPRESSING CONCERN THAT THE
UNRAVELING OF THIS STORY IS
GOING TO HAVE AN EFFECT ON HOW
SERIOUSLY PEOPLE TAKE SEXUAL
ASSAULT ON CAMPUS.
WHAT ARE THEY SAYING?
>> THEY'RE SAYING, AGAIN, IT'S
ABOUT TRUST ON THE CAMPUS.
IN ORDER FOR VICTIMS AND
SURVIVORS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT TO
FEEL COMFORTABLE TO COME
FORWARD, THEY NEED TO FEEL
THEY'RE IN AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE
THEY WILL BE WELCOMED, WHERE
THEIR STORY WILL BE TREATED AS
CREDIBLE.
OBVIOUSLY, YOU KNOW, IN
INSTANCES WHERE SEXUAL ASSAULT
ALLEGATIONS DON'T HOLD UP TO THE
FACTS, YOU KNOW, THAT, IN PART,
DISCREDITS OTHER PEOPLE WHO WANT
TO COME FORWARD.
AT THE SAME TIME, YOU KNOW, THEY
ARE ALL ABOUT MOVING FORWARD AND
ENCOURAGING OTHERS TO COME
FORWARD WITH THEIR STORIES
BECAUSE IT'S SO CRUCIAL TO
ADDRESS THIS NATIONAL ISSUE ON
COLLEGE CAMPUSES.
>> Woodruff: TAYLOR REES
SHAPIRO WITH "THE WASHINGTON
POST," WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE U.S. ECONOMY ADDED MORE THAN
320,000 JOBS IN NOVEMBER THE
MOST IN THREE YEARS, AND AVERAGE
HOURLY WAGES ROSE AS WELL.
AND NATIONWIDE PROTESTS
CONTINUED OVER THE KILLINGS OF
BLACK MEN BY POLICE.
CROWDS TURNED OUT AGAIN IN NEW
YORK AND OTHER MAJOR CITIES.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, TINY, PREHISTORIC SCRATCHES
LEFT ON THE FOSSIL OF A SEASHELL
MAY MARK THE BEGINNING OF ART
HISTORY.
A STUDY PUBLISHED THIS WEEK
FOUND THAT THE MARKINGS WERE
BETWEEN 430,000 AND 540,000
YEARS OLD, MAKING IT OLDER THAN
ANY ART CREATED BY HUMANS OR
NEANDERTHALS.
ALSO, MARGARET WARNER EXPLORES
WHY KNOCK-OFFS OF SOME WESTERN
REALITY TV HITS LIKE "THE
APPRENTICE" FLOPPED IN RUSSIA,
WHILE OTHERS, LIKE "SURVIVOR"
WERE WILDLY SUCCESSFUL.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: AND A REMINDER
ABOUT SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS
FROM OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK" WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: WE'LL EXAMINE THE
UNUSUAL CROSS CURRENTS ON
DISPLAY IN AMERICA THIS WEEK,
TOUCHING ON THE LAW, NATIONAL
SECURITY AND THE POLITICS AND
PERIL INVOLVED IN ACCOMPLISHING
CHANGE.
THAT'S TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON
WEEK."
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY, THE
COMPLICATED WORLD OF YOUR
DIGITAL ASSETS.
WH HAATPPENS TO YOUR BANKING,
EMAIL, AND OTHER ONLINE ACCOUNTS
AFTER YOU DIE?
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY.
MUSIC LEGEND AL GREEN ON SOUL,
AS A SINGER, AND A PREACHER.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A NICE
WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.